---
title: Taiwan
date: '2020-01-15'
tags: ['crypto']
draft: true
summary: It turns out a 24x7 online casino is as crazy as it sounds.
---

I’ve spent the last few months reading up on the history on Taiwan. I’ve read history books, watched old videos, talked to my parents, etc. It’s been a really fun exercise has heped me better understand the story of the Taiwanese and how things came to be.

A few points that I found interesting:

Taiwan was first ruled by the Dutch
In the early 1600’s the Dutch were in a trade war with China. They wanted somewhere to stay close to China and saw a small island they called ‘Ilha Formosa’, or beautiful island. They settled on Taiwan and brought the first semblance of civility to Taiwan’s very native and tribal culture. They ruled for 50 years until they were kicked out by a Chinese pirate, Koxinga.

Taiwan’s Outlaw Roots
In the early 1700’s after Koxinga kicked the Dutch out of Taiwan, the Ming family of China won the civil war and took over Taiwan as part of the victory. They were distracted with matters on the mainland and so Taiwan went largely ignored. It was at this time much of the Chinese migration to Taiwan happened. Many of those on the edge of society – criminals, pirates, etc – quietly fled to Taiwan to discover a new life.

Taiwan became part of Japan
50 years later during the first Sino-Japanese war, the Japanese defeated China and received Taiwan as part of the treaty. It was their first real colony and they wanted to show the world they would be good colonizers. So they invested a lot in Taiwanese infrastructure and built out many of the first banks, roads, schools, etc. The Taiwanese were forced to all take Japanese names, learn Japanese in school. When the Japanese left Taiwan after they lost WW2, the infrastructure they built became the backbone that modern Taiwanese society is built on.

The ROC loses China & retreats to Taiwan
After the Japanese lost WW2 Taiwan was handed back over to China, then ruled by the Republic of China (ROC). Shortly after the ROC lost the Chinese civil war to Mao’s party, the PROC (People’s Republic of China). Chiang Kai Shek and the ROC retreat to Taiwan, claim Taiwan as their temporary headquarters and vow to return to China to take back the country. Years later they ultimately give up plans of retaking China and settle into Taiwan as their primary home.

The Taiwan Miracle
After the initial settle in period, Taiwan put in a set of policies that helped it rapidly industrialize and in turn earn a distinction as one of the Four Asian Tigers, a set of countries growing 7%+ annually for more than 30 years. This growth was on the back of a massive $4B cash injection from the US, land reform laws that redistributed property and thus allowed many agricultural workers to change work to urban sectors, light regulation and financial incentives via economic development zones (geographies with very light taxes). This stimulated lots of economic activity in the region and drove the rapid growth.

An Entrepreneurial Culture
Related to the point above, Taiwan developed a unique SMB/entrepreneurial culture. The policies mentioned above incentivzed lots of technoogy companies to come to Taiwan to make things like PC boards, etc. That combined with a well educated population and a unique financing system that made it easy to raise startup capital led to an explosion of small businesses. Today 80% of Taiwanese workers are employed by small businesses and 50% of all companies are SMBs. This attitude carried over and we have several notable entrepreneurs like Tony Hsieh (Zappos), Terry Guo (Foxconn), Jensen Huang (NVIDIA), Min Kao (Garmin), Steven Chen (YouTube), Jerry Yang (Yahoo), Lee Kai Fu (Google China), and more.

Eastern & Western Values
Taiwan has a very traditional value system based on Confucian principles like humility, family, hard work, etc. But combined with that is a Western streak. We were one of the first democratic countries, hosting our first democratic presidential vote in 1996 (promptly followed by the Taiwanese Missile Crisis). We are the first Asian country to pass legislation that legalizes same sex marriage, one of the first Asian countries to ban the sale of dog & cat meat, and we rank 2nd in Asia on the World Press Freedom Index.

–

Taiwan has a short but fascinating history that is a true melting pot of ideas and values. The unique combination of people, the location, and economic policies have helped elevate Taiwan from a small tribal island to the global field (albeit just a small part). And despite Taiwan’s physical size, the Taiwanese have had an outsized impact on the world by creating great entrepreneurs that have helped shape the modern world.